This is a special material that is found naturally as a metal, can be forged into different shapes if done carefully, and will turn to a clear material if heated above a certain temperature. ([Ref](https://discord.com/channels/1206338624334078062/1323873143957229620/1323873311352160298))

It’s defining feature, besides it’s crystal phase change, is that looking through its glass form makes [[Magic]] that would otherwise be invisible, visible. Any [[Magic]], whether it be an enchantment or the [[Aura]] of a living creature, is visible as if it were being actively manifested. The strength of the effect depends on the quality of the glass, and is only ever partially transparent like looking at a reflection on clear glass. It is like a sort of overlay of the real world, like looking through an extra transparent layer of reality. ([Ref](https://discord.com/channels/1206338624334078062/1323873143957229620/1323873552612458558))

It is possible to hide your [[Aura]] even from someone looking through [[Dragon Glass]], but this requires active control and suppression of your [[Aura]]. It would require a certain amount of discipline and training for a [[Mage]] to be able to hide their [[Aura]] well, particularly if they are a powerful [[Mage]] with a strong [[Aura]]. Active [[Aura]] suppression, combined with a less than pure [[Dragon Glass]], lens would allow someone’s [[Aura]] to be completely invisible even when looking through the glass.

The metal is referred to as [[Dragon Glass]] not only because it tends to be found in its crystal form where [[Dragon]]s make their nests, but also because I think [[Dragon]]s should be able to see with this same kind of “true sight” naturally.
# Crystal Damascus
A popular application of [[Dragon Glass]] is create folded Damascus objects while it is in its metal form, and then cause it to phase change into its crystal form once the object has been made. This creates a material with higher rigidity than traditional metal, better [[Aura]] channeling properties, and a much more complex structure (making it more difficult to manipulate with magic, which is desirable in adversarial contexts)