[Docs link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1a6R87a5TLqZbdcvAKGqI1QXwb3I_L6MVdA66h9WWvOY/edit?tab=t.0):
I have reimagined this scene. Instead of [[Tane]] seeing [[Kuno]] die, being unable to do anything about it, and beating the shit out of whoever killed her, I think I will modify it. In the new version [[Tane]] sees the killing strike, detains the killer, but manages to get to her in time to mind link with her directly. This allows him to intermingle their minds and auras and have an entire conversation in the blink of an eye, as she is dying. The benefits of doin g it this way are obviously that they get to say goodbye and be emotional to each other (and also not say goodbye), but also provide a better mechanism for how [[Kuno]] gets to [[Valen Elicron]].

[[Tane]] is scrambling for a solution to save [[Kuno]], and she tells him that she needs to get to [[Valen Elicron]]. She says this because he is in trouble and she is only focused on saving him even if she is already dead (very SAO core lol), and [[Tane]] is reluctant to accept that this is the best option. There must be another solution, there must be something he can do. But there is not. Eventually she basically begs him, and she tells him that it’s ok for him to let her go. He helped her so much, more than almost anyone else, and she hates to do it but she has to ask him to help her one more time. [[Tane]] understands that she would basically never forgive him if he didn’t help her try to save [[Valen Elicron]], and he understand a that he would do the same for her, and so they try.

[[Tane]] uses his [[Manifestation]] to project her soul and aura outside her body, tearing her free from being [[Soul Locked]], leaving her body behind, and then he pours every ounce of [[Aura]] he can spare into her so that she can teleport herself directly to [[Valen Elicron]]. The feat is incredible, [[Tane]] is on the verge of [[Aura Poisoning]], and he also has no idea whether it worked or not. He only knows that she is gone and that her body is dead.

He takes a moment in his accelerated time perception to mourn, and then he gets angry. He returns to the killer he detained, and like I always imagined, absolutely fucks him up. Like he absolutely demolished this person, he has a “time in a bottle” moment that super hero speedsters sometimes get in movies, but minus the superhuman speed, and he uses that incredible reaction time to disassemble this person bone by bone.

I am unsure if I want him to actually kill them, or if he spares them, or if he leaves them to die slowly in pain like Anakin in StarWars.