# Overview
[Link to google doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ASD0jkSJ9n9IpBilCDGvrvF5nqOqgD0Rhd56bdo0OTU/edit?usp=sharing)
[[Aster Kenos]] is practicing basic [[Summoning]], prior to confirming he is a natural summoner, and is struggling to lift a small stone. He cannot lift the stone from rest. If he drops the stone he can hover it, but it gets harder and harder after less than a second and he fails. When he drops it, the stone cracks into the ground with extreme force. He is becoming disillusioned but still trying to prove he can do it all.

[[Lyssa Vrendel]] finds him, and figures out that the stone is actually still falling, but what [[Aster Kenos]] Is doing is *stretching space* under and above it to make it appear to hover. This is why it costs exponentially more [[Aura]] the longer it goes: because it is falling faster and space needs to be stretched further and faster over time.

Aster ultimately learns something about [[Summoning]] and [[Lyssa Vrendel]] realizes what talent and ingenuity aster has, and he invites him to study [[Computational Magic]] with him.
# V2
I think I will change this to make it be [[Aster Kenos]] trying to use [[Summoning]] to lift an object like a stone, but having the [[Lyssa Vrendel]] help him realize that he's actually using [[Augmentation]] (Not sure if this is right, I'll have to think about it) to lift it with forces. [[Aster Kenos]] is surprised to learn this because what he's doing is moving an object, which is what [[Summoning]] does, how is that not [[Summoning]]? The lesson is ultimately that the nature of the types of magic is more nuanced than he first assumed, and that creative thinking can help you do things with magic that would normally seem to be outside the scope of a type of magic.

The other lesson is that we need to understand who we actually are in order to make the best use of our abilities, rather than treating ourselves as what we wish we were. [[Aster Kenos]] thinks he is a summoner, and he will be soon, but right now he is aligned with [[Augmentation]]. That doesn't mean that he can't do [[Summoning]], but it means that he won't be as powerful at it unless he reshapes himself to think and to magic in terms of space and movement rather than force and power.

The [[Lyssa Vrendel]] produces fire in their hand and asks what kind of magic this is. [[Aster Kenos]] says it's [[Alchemy]], of course. Then the professor incorporates fire magic into martial arts moves to throw fire in a direction, and asks if that is [[Alchemy]] or [[Summoning]], and of course it's still [[Alchemy]]. Then, the professor shoots a jet of fire from their pal held stationary, and asks what *that* was. [[Aster Kenos]] eventually sees the point, which is that while it is still obviously [[Alchemy]] to evoke fire from [[Aura]], it's also using [[Summoning]] to propel the flames forward rather than throwing it with your physicality.

[[Lyssa Vrendel]] says the way we understand our relationship to magic and to the world around us changes the nature of the way we do things. We must be mindful of our own nature so that we can work within our means and maximize our strength. [[Aster Kenos]] asks "What if I reject my nature and force it to be different?" and [[Lyssa Vrendel]] says *"Then you will either be a very poor mage, or you will be one of the strongest who has ever lived."*
# V3
Keep most of v2, but modify it to be aster meeting with an “advisor” who is supposed to help ensure that he enrolls in the education that will be best for him, have her discover that he isn’t using summoning, she tells him to wait for her outside by the reining field for where the wizard duels happen, and she will have a more hands on 1-on-1 with him after she sees the last few scheduled students after him.

He’s frustrated, doesn’t understand how it can’t be summoning, angrily spins up stones with his magic and skips them over the lake in a way that their spinning actually curves them over the water back to him and he catches them. Teacher is impressed, and leads into the stuff written in v2. She is the one who has him lift the cannonball and is impressed by his raw power and effort, but needs to guide him to see what he is actually doing.

She says she “will not let” him enroll in the normal summoning curriculum. He is like “what the hell. You don’t get to choose that, I do.”  He thinks she is talking down to him, but in reality she wants him in her new experimental computational magic specialization instead. She is like a mixture of the teacher who made me leave college and the teacher who gave me the dinosaur project combined together.