I think that [[Weltzer]] will be controlled by [[Chernabog]], and part of Chernabog’s plan might be to collect as many “avatars” as he can as a sort of anti-Phoenix. Weltzer wouod be a powerful vessel for him and if weltzer wouod just give up and give him control that would make his job much simpler, but weltzer resists. He can still be controlled through blackmail, torture, and by threatening hostages, so weltzer remains useful even if he will not let chernabog assume direct control.
# Motivation & Philosophy
"What do we do when someone has an infection, or an autoimmune disease, or something that's little of both like a cancer? We step in, and we *kill it.* We make the body's environment inherently hostile to the invading microbes, we physically cut out the tumors, and if the threat is the body's own defenses then we *actively remove the host's ability to harm itself.* We do not simply ask the diseases to stop or try to educate them and hope they choose to behave better. *We eradicate, dismember, and subjugate them, because we have decided that our usage of the body is the correct usage.*"

"What you call medicine is, in reality, a type of violence. The only difference is that *you do not respect the perspective of your targets,* because you do not think they *have* a perspective. If they did, could you convince yourself that your position is somehow different than theirs? Is humanity not just yet another virus that consumes and destroys it's environment, just to further it's own goals regardless of cost to anyone or anything else? You think magic *belongs* to you? Have you forgotten that everything you are made of is borrowed-*stolen* from the world? Do you not think the universe has the right to take back every particle it unwillingly loaned you? *Do you really think you are capable of stopping it?*"

"*I **am** that disease,* but this time I have a voice."

***"I will remove you from your suffering, and it will be a kindness to us both"***