This refers to an organization in the governance structure of [[Aeolia]]. It can be thought of as similar to a literal Guild, or a Corporation, or a Union.

More work will need to be done on this concept, including different names for the hierarchy because there can be meta groups made of other groups.
# Name
Originally these were called "Guilds,"  but that made [[Aeolia]] sound too much like Ravnica. I also don't like "guild" because I am not sure they have the technology to "guild" metal. (Ok, I thought this because I thought Gilding was done with electroplating, and it is, but it was also done with [gluing and chemical plating](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gilding#:~:text=Methods%20of%20gilding%20include%20hand%20application%20and%20gluing%2C%20typically%20of%20gold%20leaf%2C%20chemical%20gilding) somehow, which I suppose they could do. I don't know what their chemical technologies are, though I suspect they are basic.) (So it turns out that chemical gilding is referred to as [Angel Gilding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Angel_gilding) which is a form of electroless chemical deposition, and is how first surface mirror are made. I want them to have mirrors and lenses, so they have access to angel gilding.)

I talk about the structure in the same way that we talk about a family tree hierarchy, and I referred to guilds as "branches," but this seemed too generic to me.

At some point it occurred to me that "Manifold" is a word that describes junction where many branches meet and combine, which seemed thematically relevant as well as suitably steampunk. I think that "[[Manifold]]" will be what any hierarchy of guilds are called (what I was referring to Meta-Guilds), and then individual guilds will be referred to as a "[[Fold]]." Fold seems appropriate because it means "join the fold" but is also the root of the word Manifold in the same way that Guild is the root of Meta-Guild.

I might make the term "manifold" refer to the [[Guild Council]], and make the guilds just be [[Fold]]s, but I'm not sure.

I kind of like the term "Siphon" to represent the [[Guild Council]], but that seems a little on the nose. "Siphon" (or even "Syphon") refers to a tube that brings liquid up against gravity out of it's reservoir without a pump, which evokes a sort of bootstrapping self-correcting effect that I want the government to have. I'm starting to like Siphon more as I think about it. Siphon could refer to the council itself, or it could refer to the one in charge of the council.
# Representation
A top level guild is a guild who has a seat at the [[Guild Council]]. It has as many votes as it has total members, which includes all [[Fold]]s under its umbrella. Any guild that is a member of a [[Manifold]] looses its seat on the council and instead its votes are added to the votes of the [[Manifold]]. There can be [[Manifold]]s within [[Manifold]]s, so the structure can get confusing. New [[Fold]]s can be formed at basically any time, though people will not want to be guild-less so this happens infrequently.

An [[Aeolia]]n citizen can have a variety of states:
- Guilded
- Guilded in defiance
- Guilded in disgrace
- Guild-less in discrace
- Guild-less in defiance
- Guild-less in apathy
- Reguilded in defiance
- Reguilded in discrace
- Reguilded in apathy
Anyone who is “in defiance” is protesting their [[Fold]]. If the guild is still in operation then they will be guilded in defiance, and if enough people do this then the [[Fold]] will be dissolved and they will become guild-less in defiance until the join another guild.
Anyone who is “in disgrace” was a member of a previously disbanded guild but who did not protest the guild. When the [[Fold]] called they will be guild-less, and when they join a new [[Fold]] they will retain their “in disgrace status for some period of time. The function of this is to prevent people from doing something wrong and just hopping to a new [[Fold]] like a cop killing someone and moving to a new county to continue being a cop.
Someone who is guild-less in apathy is someone who has left their [[Fold]] for personal reasons and does not have any issues with it. This can happen when someone wants to switch [[Fold]]s, or when a [[Fold]] is joining a [[Manifold]] and someone doesn’t feel represented by it anymore but does not feel the need to protest. People are also technically guild-less in apathy when they are born, though it is common for children who’s parents are in the same [[Fold]] to be treated as if they are in that [[Fold]] as well. And then, of course, there is the normal state of being Guilded.
Anyone who is Reguilded is simply a new member of a [[Fold]] where not enough time has passed to remove their previous [[Fold]] from their heraldry. i think this should be technically regulated, but I also think people will chose to keep their old dual heraldry for a variety of reasons. Similar to how a lot of the brown coats in firefly feel like the war never really ended, I think some people might not ever remove their reference to a guild they feel strongly about even though it has been dissolved for years.

Being in disgrace is pretty bad for obvious reasons, but bring in defiance is not great either. It is usually better, but people who disagree will often resent people in defiance and view them as traitors. It is a significant action to be in defiance, and it should be reserved for really serious situations.
# Heraldry
[[Fold]]s have heraldic symbols to differentiate them. [[Manifold]]s also have symbols, though they usually incorporate symbology from their member [[Fold]]s. An individual’s own heraldry is usually just the symbol of their [[Fold]] (potentially with some unique flair), but in the event that they left a [[Fold]] and joined a new one, their personal heraldry will include their old guild similarly to have countries that were colonies of Britain have their flags.
# "Punishment"
I think the main form of punishment that can be applied to a [[Fold]] is a fine, and fines are paid in [[Merit]]s. Fines are measured by the severity of the infraction and the population of the [[Fold]], with the idea being that every member of the guild is required to pay the same fine, regardless of if they participated in the infraction. [[Fold]]s, however, are free to distribute their [[Merit]]s however they would like (according to their own internal governance), and so the merits could come from a [[Fold]] stockpile or they could be taxed based on other income or any other strategy imaginable.

The other main form of punishment is the full disbanding of a [[Fold]], though I suspect this is rare. Former members would be guildless in disgrace, as outlined above.
## Managing Tattle-Tale Incentives
There is a fundamental conflict in this system. If the result of revealing wrongdoing within your [[Fold]] results in your own punishment, then no one will ever reveal problems. If there is incentive, or even simply protection, as a reward for revealing problems then people will look for any excuse to be a whistleblower to gain the reward or be spiteful on others. Therefore, there needs to be an additional disincentive for falsely or frivolously claiming wrongdoing.

The answer is to make a false or frivolous claim itself a violation, which endangers the entire [[Fold]] branch that brought the claim. People will be incentivized to report issues by being granted amnesty and avoiding the punishment, but they will be very unlikely to ever do this without being absolutely sure it's true or without good reason, which is what I want.

This system only ever applies if a [[Fold]] on the tree blows the whistle on an infraction happening on a branch not directly related to them. For example, if a branch blows the whistle on their parent then the parent and all of the parent's other children (other than the whistleblower) will get punished. If a branch blows the whistle on one of their siblings then the sibling (and all other downstream branches) will get punished. If a branch "blows the whistle" on it's *own child* then theoretically nothing happens, because that is just what management is meant to do anyway. There might be punishment applied, but that would be at the discretion of the parent doing the managing in accordance with the [[Fold]]'s own bylaws.

There is a sort of "exploit" in this system which can avoid punishment (depending on the bylaws of the [[Fold]]). Reporting your own branch's fault to your own superior in an *informal* way can allow the parent manager to deal with the issue without ever engaging the [[Fold]] punishment laws. On the surface, this seems like it would be an example of covering up issues, but in reality this is just a form of being honest and admitting that you've made a mistake, which should be rewarded. In the event that a manager is made aware of an issue, covers it up, and *doesn't fix the issue* (which is really all we care about: that the infractions stop) then that itself becomes a more serious infraction that a larger branch could call them out on, which would be potentially devastating to any and everyone in the [[Fold]] meaning people in the guild have an incentive to ensure that problems get solved.

Similarly, there is an exploit where people who make a mistake could stay quiet and fix the issue such that no one ever knows to report an issue. This is potentially a vector for abuse, but it is also an example of simply doing what you should do anyway without needing to be told to fix it, which is good. The way that I would disincentives trying to cover up serious infractions is to say there is no statute of limitation on [[Fold]] infractions. This means that if anyone ever finds out about something wrong that you did, it's just as valid even if it was from 20 years ago. This means that if anyone is ever going to hear about it then it had better be coming from you yourself, otherwise you'll be paying for it. Again, we want to create a culture of accountability, which I think this accomplishes.