# Brainstorming
The [[Super Sayin Transformation]] is based on the idea that one can enter a state where you can draw magic from outside yourself and use it. Something similar to MTG's land system would actually be a really good fit for this game, and if the game were more creature focused it could take some inspiration from the Pokemon card game (which already has close ties with MTG).

I think creatures should enter with energy, similar to how plainswalkers enter with loyalty, that is used in the game to do things or make characters stronger. They should enter with a certain amount, and they should have a way to generate more energy over time in order to unlock stronger powers.

Creatures should have [[Aura]] affinities, which allows them to have some sort of aura skill card applied to them. Imagine you play [[Aster Kenos]], who has [[Augmentation]] and [[Summoning]], and then you play a summoning card on him. The summoning card describes a magic skill, like defensive teleport, which you can activate by removing a certain amount of energy from Aster. Some skill cards can be hybrid types, for example a more complicated legendary technique might combine two types of magic, and so it can only be use by someone with the right combination of magic types. Some characters might also only have 1 type of magic which makes them less flexible, or they might have more than 2 if they are exceptionally powerful or non-human, and might be harder to get on the field.

There should also be weapon/artifact cards, which are also applied to characters. Object cards can do a variety of things depending on the card such as: store energy, add magic classes to characters while equipped, modify attack and defense, etc.

The game should have land cards, but I think they should function a little more like field cards in yugioh. Only one location can be on the field at a time, and both players play field cards in the same single spot. Field cards also generate their own energy like characters do, and can have abilities that use the energy and modify the game. The abilities on field cards should almost always be conditional, for example: A field card might do something when it gets more than a certain amount of energy, or it might trigger when a certain type of magic ability is activated. The point is that the land always reacts to things that happen based on it's own logic, not because someone commands the land to do something. If a character is able to activate their [[Super Sayin Transformation]] condition, then they are able to spend energy from the land as if that energy were attached to them.

An alternate version of Lands is that any number (or at least multiple) can be played, but they get played as individual battlefields. Characters get played on battlefields and can only attack and interact with stuff on that battlefield. I'm not sure how I like this, It'll need testing.

I think characters should have a Tap style function to attack and activate certain abilities. This allows for defensive abilities that incentivize not attacking so that you are still ready to react to an attack. I also think maybe there should not be an "attack phase," and attacking should instead be an action that characters can Tap and activate. Attacking characters would target another character (according to any unique text on their attack abilities) and would use the stack like any other ability.

The win/lose condition should be based on how many many characters you defeat, but each character should count as different amounts of "win points," sort of like how pokemon EX works. the issue is that with Pokemon EX, playing a second EX in a first to 3 means you have an extra point worth of pokemon on the field. To combat this, you should have a limited number of character tokens to "spend" on characters. Imagine that in a best of 5 you have 5 tokens, and you can spend those tokens to cast creatures. Then the idea is that when someone has no more characters on the field, they lose. Naturally once you run out of tokens, you cant get more characters and you have to work with what you have.

Any time an energy would be removed from a Hero, they can choose to put a Burn counter on themselves instead. Burn counters function like -1/-1 counters in Mtg, and they also reduce any energy producing abilities the card they are on has by 1 energy. The idea is that you have the option to push your hero beyond their limits, but if you accumulate more than one or 2 burn then you might not be able to generate energy at all anymore, and if you aren’t particularly strong it your just kill you outright. Tools might be able to be used to help you produce energy, depending on how the tool‘s ability functions. Drawing energy from a terrain card using [[Super Sayin Transformation]] effect would also allow you to bypass the effect via brute force of enough energy is available, but it’s not clear to me how that effect will work.

Energy is always agnostic, but heroes, skills, and tools can have restrictions on what kinds of magic they can do. For example, a hero like [[Tane]] who is Summoning/Manifestation might have an ability that reads “add 1 energy to an allied Summing or Manifestation Hero,” because his energy would not be useful for someone who only knows Augmentation. An [[Aura Reserve]] tool would also have a specific magic classification and can only be filled/drained by that kind of mage. A special artifact might have multiple types of classes, and it would effectively allow you to filter one magic type into another. (Ask daz about how he feels about magic filtering outside the card game lol)

Multi-class reserves need work. The way I have formatted the card types and classes there isn’t really a clean way to allow a mage of only one matching type to use a reserve.

In addition to tapping as a cost, some abilities can have “pass turn” as a cost. This means that you pass the turn token to the next player when you activate the ability, and then you deal with the stack as normal. Players can react as normal, and when the stack resolves the person with the turn token has priority. Technically all this does is move the priority token, the normal game rules would handle who can play cards and have priority whenever the stack is empty.

I'm thinking the game should be a singleton format, at least to start. No duplicate cards, small deck sizes, and no lose condition if you run out (like how Pokémon TCGP is).

I initially envisioned this as a death battle, but an alternate mode where players bring special cards to represent the objective they are defending might be interesting. Someone might bring a castle, someone mitt bring a ship. The castle might have more health, and the ship might have cannons and can deal damage. The strength of an objective card can be balanced by how many deployment tokens you start the game with. You effectively “spend” the tokens to deploy your objective. This actually allows for one sided fights, where one person is defending and one is attacking, which is neat.

The way the win condition is working out, there is actually no reason to have any restrictions on deck size. If your deck is small and consistent that is fine because you might get taken out early since you need heroes on the field to stay alive, and having too many cards is usually a detriment anyway. the more deployment tokens your game has, the larger your deck will need to be. If you play with 5 tokens and only bring 3 tokens worth of heroes, for example, your opponent will simply outlast you, do having a tiny deck is not optimal. The format is self correcting.

Ok so there is an issue with the way I have been describing the stack. It would work in a digital game, but it would be hard to remember on the table. Instead, I should take a page out of MTG’s book and only allow specific abilities to be reactive. Everything is “sorcery speed” unless it says it is “reactive” or something.

There is also an issue with untapping: I didn’t actually put a way to do it. At first I assumed it would work like Mtg, but then when I added the cost of passing priority as a mechanic I forgot to realize that would destroy the concept of turns. To fix this, one solution is to have a global untap step when both players pass without taking actions. This will benefit players with more material though because they can choose not to pass and keep taking game actions even though the payer with the worse board state probably has no more options. Another solution is to allow the active player at any time to trigger an untap step, where both players untap. This has the benefit of preventing players with huge board states from swarming over smaller players because the game untaps at the speed of the smallest board, but it also allows anyone to take an untap regardless of how much of their material they have gone through. If priority does not pass durning an untap, then no player should end up with a dead turn. When one player is able to take actions when they receive priority they will trigger upkeep for both players, and the only advantage the player with the larger board state will have is a wider variety of options, not necessarily having more actions.

As I'm coming up with card concepts I think it will be more interesting if instead of replacing one location with another, you can play multiple locations and choose where to deploy heroes. The game starts with a default location that basicaly has no text, and then as the game goes on each player can create additional battlefields by playing locations. Abilities can only affect objects 