[[Magic]] is what people call the process of spending relatively large amounts of [[Aura]] to produce any of a wide variety of effects, which might be otherwise imposible by non-magical means.
# The Origin of Magic
In the same way that all beings generate [[Aura]] but only large beings like [[Primordial]]s or [[Great Spirit]]s produce meaningful amounts, all beings generate a mechanism or framework by which [[Magic]] can actually be enacted, but these frameworks are equally minuscule compared to their source. In small beings, such as humans, this framework presents itself as their [[Dynamic]]. In the largest of beings, such as the [[Primordial]]s, the degree that they affect the laws of the universe is so great that it enables world changing feats of [[Magic]] to be performed.
## The Magic of Creation
Most people on [[Pernicion]] understand there to be a single source of [[Magic]]: The [[Primordial]] [[Spirit]] of the gas giant their planet orbits, known as the [[Third Primordial]]. More educated people understand that, while this is technically true, the [[Third Primordial]]‘s magic was modified by the [[Precious Ones]] after the deaths of all three [[Primordial]]s and split into distinct [[Magical Branch]]es. These [[Magical Branch]]es are: [[Alchemy]], [[Augmentation]], [[Manifestation]], and [[Summoning]].

Without this segmentation it would have been impossible for mortals to do [[Magic]] in any useful capacity. The act of channeling [[Aura]] damages the conduit, and in living beings this damage presents as [[Aura Poisoning]]. The amount of damage over time is proportional to the amount of [[Aura]] you are channelling during that time, but it is *also* proportional to the complexity of the effect you are creating. The separation of [[Magic]] is what allows for casting “simple” [[Magic]], by splitting the entirety of the framework down into multiple simpler ones. These [[Magical Branch]]es individually cause significantly less [[Aura Poisoning]], but when multiple are used simultaneously to produce complex spells a far greater amount of stress and damage is put on the conduit/[[Mage]].

The combined power of every [[Magical Branch]], as it was in [[The Age of Primordials]], is the power to redefine define physical reality. A mage that channeled the entirety of the magic of creation at once would be nearly limitless in what they could achieve, and yet the strain of channeling this power even for a moment would destroy them completely. The segmentation of [[Magic]] is the greatest gift that mortals could have ever received, but it is also a restriction that prevents them from being too powerful for their own good. Many mages can only channel one [[Magical Branch]] at a time, but stronger [[Mage]]s often will channel two when necessary. Being able to successfully channel three for any length of time is a legendary feat, and channelling all four without dying or permanently destroying your ability to do [[Magic]] is unheard of.
## The Magic of Entropy
There is a second, lesser known, source of magic on [[Pernicion]]. When the planet was created during [[The Age of Primordials]], a [[Nova Shard]] of the [[First Primordial]] was encased as its core. This magic, known as [[Dark Aura]], is single minded and one-dimensional, as was its source. On it’s own, in its “pure” form, it has exactly one function: consume and convert anything and everything into more of itself.

It has been experimented with multiple times throughout history, usually with catastrophic results.
- [[Great Disaster]]
- [[Dark Aura Project]]