# Name Ideas
- Aeolia (Greek, island kingdom ruled by Aeolus ruler of the winds)
# Low Magic
I think the best explanation for why there are few mages is that there is a seriously low concentration of [[Orichalcum]] in the region. The reason for why there is no [[Orichalcum]] is up in the air. It isn't clear if it was always that way, or if at one time there were lots but an ancient civilization mined it all or something.
## Anti-Magic Disaster
Generations before [[Aeolia]]'s founding, a different civilization existed. This civilization was highly magical, and they also had a series of towers that allowed them to communicate and send power across vast distances. This civilization was also cruel to people who were "lesser," and eventually people decided to give the powerful leaders who refused to respect them what they deserve. A sort of "Manhattan Project" was developed mostly in secret, and eventually an anti-magic weapon was deployed at the center of their magic network, which caused a series of [[Aura]] destroying explosions to cascade through the network. Almost instantly, an entire nation was brought to it's knees, and in the process the anti-magic fallout from the disaster choked the magic from the land for miles. What was left was a place that could not sustain magic hardly at all. Virtually everyone who was magically sensitive was either killed or had severe [[Aura Poisoning]], and no new people who could do magic would be born for hundreds of years.

The remaining people would rebuild, and create the nation [[Aeolia]]. They would rebuild the towers and create a new network in the place of the old one, but this time using science and with the help of everyone. Eventually, magic would start to return to the land, and as people began to be born with [[Aura]] projects like [[WUC]] would be created. This time they would shepherd the magic users in a way that would prevent them from being cruel and selfish.
# Power Generation
The capital uses geothermal steam power, and that that city uses their forged to build huge solar focusing parabolas to create artificial versions for smaller cities.
# Philosophy And Creation Story
## Everyone Lifts, Or Everyone Drowns
### The Issue
I would like to base [[Aeolia]]'s system of governance on a conversation I had with dad. I observed that society only works when everyone's interests are aligned, and the only way to ensure that our interests are aligned is to tie everyone's success and survival to each other. At the same time, no one is willing to do work to solve a problem until the effects of the problem start to impact them more than the effort it would take, and people do not like to take risks to improve the world until they have nothing to lose in the attempt.

Dad pointed out that the way the military does it is to actively punish everyone in the event that an individual makes a mistake, which incentivizes the group to ensure that every individual in the group is performing correctly. I observed that the scientific community takes a similar but inside-out strategy by punishing/eliminating research teams who publish data that cannot be verified by the group, which incentivizes the teams to make sure any data they publish is legit. The common thread is that the punishment lands on a group of people even if the mistake or lie is the result of an individual, which means the entire group is incentivized to error check their group. The key difference between the military and academia is that in the military the punishment and judgement is dealt by a single authority, where in academia the punishment comes from the distributed collective. The authoritative version is effective at getting results, but requires leadership to be of unimpeachable character which is rare.

In an ideal world the punishment would come from a distributed source, or at least from an impartial source, and the punishment would be felt by the entire group. The punishment cannot come from anyone who would benefit from the punishment or removal of the group, which is why capitalism is a race to the bottom: If you eliminate a competitor then there is more buisness for you. Groups would be incentivized to catch other groups in mistakes, or even *fabricate evidence* of them making mistakes, which is unacceptable.
### Required Components
- Nothing to lose: Citizens should not feel like speaking out or advocating for change can reduce their quality of life. They must be granted unalienable rights that include food, shelter, healthcare, education, probbaly UBI, etc.
- Fear of Punishment: Citizens need something to fear in the event that an individual in their group messes up, but this punishment cannot be anything that would remove one of their rights, and it cannot have other unintended concequences that could be weaponized. For example, if a punishment were the removal of representation then there would be incentive for a rival faction to incriminate another in order to modify policy.
	- This punishment could be the banishment/dissolving of the guild that is being punished, and that the now guileless members are forced to join new guilds but will have a black mark on their records. Guilds would have to provide some benefit compared to being childless, but different guilds would have to have equivalent benefits to avoid capitalist issues.
[This](https://youtube.com/shorts/Hb-w7qpWNsE?si=O8Zv8ATOT8KiiA0t) feels relevant somehow.
### simplified breakdown
Half of the old civilization did hardcore oppression, and so the other half did a Hiroshima. They then rebuilt, and the new civilization things the nuclear terrorism was awesome, and mutually assured destruction is how they respond to all disagreements. Everyone lifts, or everyone drowns. Fence sitting is not an option, you are expected to take a side, and if you don’t agree with the actions of your [[Fold]] then you leave it. This way, a [[Fold]] who’s leadership goes rogue will simply wither into nothing and be pushed out and forgotten. If a disagreement happens between [[Fold]]s and there is enough people to support both sides, then people do a genre strike until a compromise that satisfies both sides can be found. If there is no compromise, then the economy collapses and that’s that.

[[Fold]]s will sometimes “boycott” another group, rather than fully strike, but in large enough conflicts the results are the same. The difference is that because people have the option of leaving their [[Fold]] and joining one that can participate in society, the weaker [[Fold]] will eventually just either and die if an agreement is not reached. And again, if you are switching folds you had *better* actually act like you belong, because people will other you and kick you out in a heart beat if you aren’t participating in the group correctly.

Social punishment is severe, and so far the MAD has worked with 100% consistency. If it didn’t, then there would be no society, and yet here they are. (Dangerous self fulfilling logic lol)
## Magic Fallout
Daz suggested to me that we give [[Aeolia]] an “anti-magic weapon technology, but I decided it wasn’t something a non-magic society would be able to accomplish and that idea was repurposed as the [[Thought Bomb]] concept for the [[Dark Aura]]gic/Dark Aura]]. On reflection though, I think there is still room for an anti-magic bomb in [[Aeolia]]’s history.

[[Aeolia]] may have once been a magical nation like the others, but it would have been corrupt. Magic would have caused strong enough societal problems that people were driven to violence, in similar ways that people are becoming radicalized against the rich in real life today (in December 2024). The result would have been an anti-magic bomb at the place with the most mages. It would have been a devastating nation destroying event, and in addition to the localized blast it would have left anti-magic fallout for hundreds of miles that prevents the land from creating aura.

In the wake of this disaster, modern [[Aeolia]] is created, with it’s capital build right in the crater made by the blast. The nation is built on the lessons learned and taught by those who came before, where society is structured in such a way that everyone’s interests are all aligned and where there is minimal social stratification where possible. Now, so many years later, magic is beginning to “wake up” again and the land is healing, and so a new “[[Fold]]” called [[WUC]] is formed.
# Nation-Wide Communication
[[Aeolia]] uses a system called the [[TRS]] in order to communicate between light harvesting water [[Tower]]s spread throughout the nation.

As a fortunate quirk, since the [[TRS]] is mirror based, [[Tane Altes]] can also use them to communicate directly with and even transport small groups of people instantaneously between any two [[Tower]]s in the nation. This was discovered after the creation of the [[TRS]], but it enabled [[WUC]] to be an instantaneous response team and was a significant part of the appeal of starting the [[WUC]] project in the first place.
# Miscellaneous
[This](https://youtube.com/shorts/rc1WEQALcJo?si=bBInbvhK7NHezN1I) is just very cool and fits the vibe lol