Reference ideas
[Tesla Turbine](https://youtube.com/shorts/mCpEc0lmrXw?si=eH17esoddckLXjo1)
[Underwater Steam Jet Engine](https://www.newscientist.com/article/dn3321-steam-fires-underwater-jet-engine/)

# Steam Turbo Boat
Steam leaves the boiler, flows through a steam turbine, and is ejected (~~potentially underwater~~ ejecting underwater would reduce turbine speed because the high pressure of the water would resist the expansion of the steam. It should eject above water). Steam turbine outlet uses the Venturi effect to siphon air through the coal box to increase heat. The steam turbine drives two water propellers (I’m thinking a turbine style prop because it’s cooler) through some sort of transmission/differential, as well a water pump. The water pump pulls water in from the ocean, over the exterior of the turbine, and pumps it back into the boiler at a rate coupled with turbine speed (since turbine speed should be coupled with steam production). The turbine exterior functions as a water preheater, recapturing any heat losses and keeping the more delicate turbine within operational temperatures. The ship is capable of using wind to assist in a cold startup by allowing the water to drive the thrust turbines, which themselves drive the steam turbine, which pulls air from the boiler and coal box. Starting in this mode requires the boiler steam valve to be closed and the preheater to be disabled, so as to not flood the steam turbine with water. Once the steam pressure is high enough it can be switched to normal operation and the steam valve/preheater pump can be opened/started. The ship should rapidly gain speed as the steam engine contributes power and starts driving the turbine props faster than the speed of water over them. Once the ship is traveling fast enough, it might reach speeds faster than the wind, in which case the sails can be retracted as they no longer contribute to speed. (I think it might be possible to exploit something similar to Vertasium’s video about sailing faster than the wind in order to go even faster.) I also like the idea of using the same wind fins as the sand walkers as you see in Last Oasis, but I’m not sure if I’m as much a fan of that. If I did then I would probably want to style the boats after those Japanese sail boats with sails that look like fish fins, but modified slightly.