In the ancient past, [[Aeolia]] was destroyed in a single night when a [[Dark Aura]]gic/Dark Aura]] anti-magic device was detonated. It destroyed the central city, burned everyone with a strong aura from the inside out, and cascaded across the network doing this in every city in the entire country. This not only killed virtually every magic user alongside quite a few normal people, and not only destroyed all of the physical magical infrastructure that the cities relied on to function, but it also produced a level of anti-magic fallout that the entire region was an anti-magic wasteland for generations. People born and raised in [[Aeolia]] after the [[Great Disaster]] had virtually no [[Aura]] and no magical connection to land.

The reasoning for the disaster was because the ruling mage-class of citizens had abused their power too much for too long, and a coalition of normal people alongside a tiny few mages formed a plan to eliminate the magic class of citizen.

Information about the plan and the attack has been lost over time though, and one key detail that no one is aware of anymore is that the goal was not to destroy *every* city that day. The plan was to disable the network as the bomb went off, sparing the rest of the nation (which had a much higher proportion of non-mages the further out from the center you go). The network was not suposed to be active, and in fact the network *did go down* beofre the explosion, however, something brought it back online moments before the actual detonation…

No one knows why the network was brought back online. It could have been that the team taking it down was defeated by network security who assumed thst Sabotaging the network was the whole point. It’s also possible that there was a 3rd group involved who had infiltrated the revolutionaries and used the chaos as an opportunity to cripple [[Aeolia]].